---
layout: post
title: "My Journey Toward Space Network Engineering"
date: 2025-06-02 10:00:00 +0000
categories: blog
---

Hi! My name is Ryan. I suppose throughout my life I have always wanted to do one thing or another. Eventually the time came when I had to get a job. The first place I ever worked
at was Chick-fil-A. What I liked most about that job was eating delicious food. There are many funny stories I could tell about my time working at that restaurant but that's for another
time. Anyone who has ever worked in a restaurant will know what FOH and BOH means. My role at Chick-fil-A was in FOH where I worked the cash register, delivered meals to guests tables, 
and generally helped out wherever I could. I became friends with many people. Some were employees and some were customers. But I never really was the social type. If that makes any sense.
An oppporunity came up for me to learn about Culinary Arts and attend a cooking school not too far from home. I enjoyed every day I spent in class learning about all kinds of cuisines. After
I graduated I talked with my boss at Chick-fil-A about using my new cooking skills to work in the back of the restaurant where I would cook food for customers. Apparently he had other ideas.

The chef I learned from in the cooking school helped me to get an interview at a restaurant I was impressed with. This restaurant is known for their exceptional Italian cuisine. My interview went
well and I was able to come back to that restaurant for a few hours and do some prep work. The Executive Chef asked me what I thought about my experience and I told him it was great. I ended up becoming
an employee at the restaurant. In many ways, working in a kitchen is difficult. My passion for cooking was always there but I could not foresee myself having the quality of life that I wanted if I continued
on this career path. That is when I began studying for IT certifications. I have always been passionate about technology and knew I could have a great life if I made a change. The first IT certification I ever
received was the CompTIA Security+. Maybe it's because I grew up in a home where both parents worked in Law Enforcement or that I attended college courses for Administration of Justice, that the concepts of
Cybersecurity naturally seemed to find a place to stay in my mind where other things such as Mathetmatics or Geography would easily depart. After I received my certification I felt ready to apply for jobs in IT.

It's common for anyone entering the field of IT to begin working a support position, typically Help Desk. How I received an offer of employment was such that I had submitted hundreds of applications and didn't really get
many interviews until one day a company decided to welcome me aboard. Driving to a corporate office with air conditioning and working on computers all day seemed like it would be the perfect day. The reality of the role, Help Desk, is that end users do not call you when they want to have a friendly chat. Instead, they call you to solve their computer problems. They expect you to know everything there is to know and fix their computers
as fast as possible. Your experience helping someone can greatly depend on who the person on the other end of the phone line is. I think a key quality to lasting in this role is that of endurance. I do think
that if I had created better strategies for stress management and gone into the office everyday with the mindset of having purpose, I likely would have stayed with the organization longer than I did. I decided to leave. 

With limited skills I went back to what I knew and that was cooking. One job after another was the same result. I didn't much care for the people I worked with and the pay was not what I needed it to be. So that has led me to where I am now. I am not working, well, I am at home all day and night training for my next role in IT. I have applied for positions locally in Help Desk and Desktop Support and received no signs of possible futures.
Recently I started studying Networking with the goal in mind to become a Network Engineer. As I completed one project after another, I wanted to build more complex networks and further my learning. Eventually I found out about Space Network Engineering. It's a specialized field of Network Engineering focused on designing, implementing, and maintaining the communication systems that support space missions. This includes the networks used for satellite communications, spacecraft telemetry, command and control, and deep space communication. It wasn't long thereafter that I realized my vision in life. I want to contribute to the infrastructure of the Internet of Space. I created many versions of roadmaps to become employed as a Network Engineer and eventually become a Ground Station Network Engineer. Tonight, I finally created the plan I will follow completely. 

I don't know how long it will take for me to receive an offer of employment as a Network Engineer. Therefore I have created other paths to gain entry into IT and also where I can further develop essential skills
towards my future role in Space Network Engineering. These positions include System Administrator, Network Administrator, Network Engineer, AWS Support Engineer(Networking), Blue Team, Red Team, and DFIR. Clearly, these are many and great paths on their own. Collectively, they are about Networking and Security. I think that if I am studying day and night to get back into IT, I will learn as much as I am able to about Networking and Security so there will be many more doors of employment open. I intend to receive my offer of employment in one of these positions before end of month, which is June 2025. Time is not a luxury. Nevertheless, I will begin working in IT soon, officially. Knowing what I know now, any of the above jobs will easily become stressful. This time I have found better strategies for managing stress and I know what my purpose in life is. Now, I welcome challenges in life because they help me grow. I want to become better than I was the day before. 

Along this journey I will share the progress I make beginning a new career in IT, projects I complete, and more. 

End of transmission.
